---
title: "Machine Measurement"
linktitle: "machine_measurements"
date: 2023-10-02
weight: 20
description: >
  A table with ECG machine information and output measurements / reports.
---

This table provides information about the machine used to collect a diagnostic ECG along with the output from that machine - summary measurements (RR interval, QRS onset, etc) and machine generated reports.
Each diagnostic ECG study has a waveform file (in WFDB format) and is assigned a unique `study_id`.
This table contains a variety of columns which provide machine and measurement / report information. The `study_id` can be used to link to the record list (with the path to waveform), and cardiologist note.

# Important considerations

- Diagnostic ECGs are available for patients from the MIMIC-IV Clinical Database. These ECGs were collected between 2008 - 2019 but have been date shifted (for de-identification) per the convention across MIMIC.
- For a given subject, all available diagnostic ECGs (inpatient and outpatient) were pulled. Therefore, a large number of the waveforms will overlap with visits in the Clinical Database but some will not.

# Table columns
This information is also available in the `machine_measurements_data_dictionary.csv` in the MIMIC-IV-ECG project on [physionet.org](https://physionet.org/).

## `subject_id`

`subject_id` is a unique identifier which specifies an individual patient. Any rows associated with a single `subject_id` pertain to the same individual.

## `study_id`

A unique identifier for the diagnostic ECG study.  

## `cart_id`

An identifier specific to the ECG cart used to collect the diagnostic ECG waveform.

## `ecg_time`

The time that the diagnostic ECG was collected.

## `report_#`	

A text based cardiology report generated by the ECG machine. A variable number of report #'s are expected and can be separated by blank rows.

## `bandwidth`

The bandwidth of the ECG machine

## `filtering`	

An indicator for the filter setting

## `rr_interval`	

Time between successive R-waves (msec)

## `p_onset`	

Time at the onset of the P-wave (msec)

## `p_end`	

Time at the end of the P-wave (msec)

## `qrs_onset`	

Time at the beginning of the QRS complex (msec)

## `qrs_end`	

Time at the end of the QRS complex (msec)

## `t_end`	

Time at the end of the T-wave (msec)

## `p_axis`	

The electrical axis of the P-wave (degrees)

## `qrs_axis`	

The electrical axis of the QRS complex (degrees)

## `t_axis`	

The electrical axis of the T-wave (degrees)
